PAUL LEWIS: Today
I've had a little bit
of a play with the images
for the Chrome Dev Summit
site-- the mastered images.
If you look at what
I've got on screen,
these masthead
images have the kind
of angular cutoff at the bottom.
And I was thinking about this.
There's kind of a couple
of ways you could do it.
One would be, you actually just
have the image as a rectangle,
and then you kind of overlay
something on the top,
like a triangle.
Like, say, using
SVG or something.
And that's actually what I
did in the holding page--
the announcement page here.
This has a slight angle on
it, which you can probably
see if I make it a bit smaller.
It has a slight
angle on it upwards.
But the thing is, when
you've got that triangle,
when it butts up to the
white rectangle above it
in this case, sometimes
there's a hairline crack.
And I filed a bug
against Chrome saying,
there's a hairline crack on
phones because, I assume,
it's some kind of
rounding issue to do
with not exactly lining up.
Anyway, so I was like, OK, I
need to find a different way.
And I've been messing
around with SVG.
And it's one of these things
that I could not get it right.
Here's what I
actually have, right?
So, I've got the image.
And, see, that kind
of roughly works.
If you look at it--
actually, let me switch
across to VS code, right.
What we've got is there's
an image which is a pattern.
So, there's a
rectangle here which
uses the image as a pattern.
And it could have been-- I could
have used an image element,
actually, a square
image element.
Because this was kind
of where I got to.
And then there's a
clip-path of this clip.
And the clip is-- it's a
rectangle with a triangular
bit at the bottom because
of the view box that's set.
It's all kind of kept
broadly in proportion.
I don't mind the
angle of the triangle
kind of squishing in and out.
It just has to look OK-ish
for the screen size it's on.
The problem is the
effect isn't what I want,
because the image is kind of
getting smaller and shrinking
to the bottom.
And that's because
it's xMid yMax
on the preserve aspect ratio.
So I was like, OK.
Why don't we do preserve
aspect ratio none.
But then you get that,
which is like, yeah.
Now the clip is kind of
doing what I want, right?
It's always clipping there,
but obviously, the photo
is getting squashed.
And it's also the
case that if I do
xMid yMid, which is kind of
what I want from the photo.
As in, I want the photo to--
when the screen is really wide,
and you can't
really see it here.
If I zoom out, it
doesn't spread.
Whereas with the-- anyway.
This isn't working
for me, right?
But Chris Coyier--
thanks, Chris,
yes-- has a post on
CSS tricks, which--
I guess we'll make sure it goes
into the description-- which
talks about using SVG as a clip
for non-SVG content, which is
pretty much what I've got here.
And, in fact, that's what I've
gone ahead and done over here
in index page.
Now, you can see
I've got the image
doing what the image does.
And that's just basically-- it's
just a div with the background
and it's set to
background size cover.
And if I don't have
the clip on it--
if you don't have
the clip on it,
you can see it just--
that pretty much
does what I want it to do.
And then, I can use media
queries to make sure that if I
need a smaller image, whatever.
But, I switch on the clip-path.
And the clip-path is
just basically this SVG
with a clip-path that's defined
by the object's bounding box.
So it just basically maps
to a normalized version
of those previous
view box values
where one is the height--
maximum height-- and 1100.
Anyway, that all now
works brilliantly.
So, it's just more
that I've kind of
cracked that particular
problem for now,
which is kind of a weight off.
The only thing that
really caught me
out when I was looking around,
was I couldn't get clip-path
to work.
It doesn't throw any kind of
warning or error in Chrome.
It just doesn't do anything.
It's still WebKit prefixed.
But yet, it's got a
line through it saying
it's being overridden by this.
So I think I'm going
to file a bug that says
it should be one or the other.
We should kind of put something
against click-path that says,
actually, I don't
support click-path.
Or if we do, we should actually
support click-path rather than
WebKit click-path.
Wow, I didn't realize
that was going
to be a hard word to say today.
So there you go.
Clipping with SVG on
SVG Elements, that
should mean that I can
do this kind of effect
and then have other stuff
behind it peeking through
and all the rest of it.
Which is exactly the
effect that I want,
and I didn't know exactly how
I was going to achieve it.
Phew, weight off.
Don't forget to
subscribe if you want
to catch more of these videos.
And you can check out
the code on GitHub.
I've been pushing stuff there.
Toodle-oo.
[MUSIC PLAYING]